Biography of Edgar Allan Poe
This is a short biography. Unlike many biographies that just seem to go on and on, I've tried to compose one short enough to read in a single sitting.

Poe's Childhood
Edgar Poe was born in Boston on January 19, 1809. That makes him Capricorn, on the cusp of Aquarius. His parents were David and Elizabeth Poe. David was born in Baltimore on July 18, 1784. Elizabeth Arnold came to the U.S. from England in 1796 and married David Poe after her first husband died in 1805. They had three children, Henry, Edgar, and Rosalie.

Elizabeth Poe died in 1811, when Edgar was 2 years old. She had separated from her husband and had taken her three kids with her. Henry went to live with his grandparents while Edgar was adopted by Mr. and Mrs. John Allan and Rosalie was taken in by another family. John Allan was a successful merchant, so Edgar grew up in good surroundings and went to good schools.

When Poe was 6, he went to school in England for 5 years. He learned Latin and French, as well as math and history. He later returned to school in America and continued his studies. Edgar Allan went to the University of Virginia in 1826. He was 17. Even though John Allan had plenty of money, he only gave Edgar about a third of what he needed. Although Edgar had done well in Latin and French, he started to drink heavily and quickly became in debt. He had to quit school less than a year later.

Poe in the Army
Edgar Allan had no money, no job skills, and had been shunned by John Allan. Edgar went to Boston and joined the U.S. Army in 1827. He was 18. He did reasonably well in the Army and attained the rank of sergeant major. In 1829, Mrs. Allan died and John Allan tried to be friendly towards Edgar and signed Edgar's application to West Point.

While waiting to enter West Point, Edgar lived with his grandmother and his aunt, Mrs. Clemm. Also living there was his brother, Henry, and young cousin, Virginia. In 1830, Edgar Allan entered West Point as a cadet. He didn't stay long because John Allan refused to send him any money. It is thought that Edgar purposely broke the rules and ignored his duties so he would be dismissed.

A Struggling Writer
In 1831, Edgar Allan Poe went to New York City where he had some of his poetry published. He submitted stories to a number of magazines and they were all rejected. Poe had no friends, no job, and was in financial trouble. He sent a letter to John Allan begging for help but none came. John Allan died in 1834 and did not mention Edgar in his will.

In 1835, Edgar finally got a job as an editor of a newspaper because of a contest he won with his story, "The Manuscript Found in a Bottle". Edgar missed Mrs. Clemm and Virginia and brought them to Richmond to live with him. In 1836, Edgar married his cousin, Virginia. He was 27 and she was 13. Many sources say Virginia was 14, but this is incorrect. Virginia Clemm was born on August 22, 1822. They were married before her 14th birthday, in May of 1836. In case you didn't figure it out already, Virginia was Virgo.

As the editor for the Southern Literary Messenger, Poe successfully managed the paper and increased its circulation from 500 to 3500 copies. Despite this, Poe left the paper in early 1836, complaining of the poor salary. In 1837, Edgar went to New York. He wrote "The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym" but he could not find any financial success. He moved to Philadelphia in 1838 where he wrote "Ligeia" and "The Haunted Palace". His first volume of short stories, "Tales of the Grotesque and Arabesque" was published in 1839. Poe received the copyright and 20 copies of the book, but no money.

Sometime in 1840, Edgar Poe joined George R. Graham as an editor for Graham's Magazine. During the two years that Poe worked for Graham's, he published his first detective story, "The Murders in the Rue Morgue" and challenged readers to send in cryptograms, which he always solved. During the time Poe was editor, the circulation of the magazine rose from 5000 to 35,000 copies. Poe left Graham's in 1842 because he wanted to start his own magazine.

Poe found himself without a regular job once again. He tried to start a magazine called The Stylus and failed. In 1843, he published some booklets containing a few of his short stories but they didn't sell well enough. He won a hundred dollars for his story, "The Gold Bug" and sold a few other stories to magazines but he barely had enough money to support his family. Often, Mrs. Clemm had to contribute financially. In 1844, Poe moved back to New York. Even though "The Gold Bug" had a circulation of around 300,000 copies, he could barely make a living.

In 1845, Edgar Poe became an editor at The Broadway Journal. A year later, the Journal ran out of money and Poe was out of a job again. He and his family moved to a small cottage near what is now East 192nd Street. Virginia's health was fading away and Edgar was deeply distressed by it. Virginia died in 1847, 10 days after Edgar's birthday. After losing his wife, Poe collapsed from stress but gradually returned to health later that year.

Final Days
In June of 1849, Poe left New York and went to Philadelphia, where he visited his friend John Sartain. Poe left Philadelphia in July and came to Richmond. He stayed at the Swan Tavern Hotel but joined "The Sons of Temperance" in an effort to stop drinking. He renewed a boyhood romance with Sarah Royster Shelton and planned to marry her in October. 

On September 27, Poe left Richmond for New York. He went to Philadelphia and stayed with a friend named James P. Moss. On September 30, he meant to go to New York but supposedly took the wrong train to Baltimore. On October 3, Poe was found at Gunner's Hall, a public house at 44 East Lombard Street, and was taken to the hospital. He lapsed in and out of consciousness but was never able to explain exactly what happened to him. Edgar Allan Poe died in the hospital on Sunday, October 7, 1849.

The mystery surrounding Poe's death has led to many myths and urban legends. The reality is that no one knows for sure what happened during the last few days of his life. Did Poe die from alcoholism? Was he mugged? Did he have rabies? A more detailed exploration of Poe's death can be found here.


ONCE upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and weary,	 
Over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore,—	 
While I nodded, nearly napping, suddenly there came a tapping,	 
As of some one gently rapping, rapping at my chamber door.	 
"'T is some visitor," I muttered, "tapping at my chamber door;	         5
    Only this and nothing more."	 
  
Ah, distinctly I remember it was in the bleak December	 
And each separate dying ember wrought its ghost upon the floor.	 
Eagerly I wished the morrow;—vainly I had sought to borrow	 
From my books surcease of sorrow—sorrow for the lost Lenore,	  10
For the rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore:	 
    Nameless here for evermore.	 
  
And the silken sad uncertain rustling of each purple curtain	 
Thrilled me—filled me with fantastic terrors never felt before;	 
So that now, to still the beating of my heart, I stood repeating	  15
"'T is some visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door,	 
Some late visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door:	 
    This it is and nothing more."	 
  
Presently my soul grew stronger; hesitating then no longer,	 
"Sir," said I, "or Madam, truly your forgiveness I implore;	  20
But the fact is I was napping, and so gently you came rapping,	 
And so faintly you came tapping, tapping at my chamber door,	 
That I scarce was sure I heard you"—here I opened wide the door:—	 
    Darkness there and nothing more.	 
  
Deep into that darkness peering, long I stood there wondering, fearing,	  25
Doubting, dreaming dreams no mortals ever dared to dream before;	 
But the silence was unbroken, and the stillness gave no token,	 
And the only word there spoken was the whispered word, "Lenore?"	 
This I whispered, and an echo murmured back the word, "Lenore:"	 
    Merely this and nothing more.	  30
  
Back into the chamber turning, all my soul within me burning,	 
Soon again I heard a tapping somewhat louder than before.	 
"Surely," said I, "surely that is something at my window lattice;	 
Let me see, then, what thereat is, and this mystery explore;	 
Let my heart be still a moment and this mystery explore:	  35
    'T is the wind and nothing more."	 
  
Open here I flung the shutter, when, with many a flirt and flutter,	 
In there stepped a stately Raven of the saintly days of yore.	 
Not the least obeisance made he; not a minute stopped or stayed he;	 
But, with mien of lord or lady, perched above my chamber door,	  40
Perched upon a bust of Pallas just above my chamber door:	 
    Perched, and sat, and nothing more.	 
  
Then this ebony bird beguiling my sad fancy into smiling	 
By the grave and stern decorum of the countenance it wore,—	 
"Though thy crest be shorn and shaven, thou," I said, "art sure no craven,	  45
Ghastly grim and ancient Raven wandering from the Nightly shore:	 
Tell me what thy lordly name is on the Night's Plutonian shore!"	 
    Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore."	 
  
Much I marvelled this ungainly fowl to hear discourse so plainly,	 
Though its answer little meaning—little relevancy bore;	  50
For we cannot help agreeing that no living human being	 
Ever yet was blessed with seeing bird above his chamber door,	 
Bird or beast upon the sculptured bust above his chamber door,	 
    With such name as "Nevermore."	 
  
But the Raven, sitting lonely on the placid bust, spoke only	  55
That one word, as if his soul in that one word he did outpour.	 
Nothing further then he uttered, not a feather then he fluttered,	 
Till I scarcely more than muttered,—"Other friends have flown before;	 
On the morrow he will leave me, as my Hopes have flown before."	 
    Then the bird said, "Nevermore."	  60
  
Startled at the stillness broken by reply so aptly spoken,	 
"Doubtless," said I, "what it utters is its only stock and store,	 
Caught from some unhappy master whom unmerciful Disaster	 
Followed fast and followed faster till his songs one burden bore:	 
Till the dirges of his Hope that melancholy burden bore	  65
    Of 'Never—nevermore.'	 
  
But the Raven still beguiling all my fancy into smiling,	 
Straight I wheeled a cushioned seat in front of bird and bust and door;	 
Then, upon the velvet sinking, I betook myself to linking	 
Fancy unto fancy, thinking what this ominous bird of yore,	  70
What this grim, ungainly, ghastly, gaunt, and ominous bird of yore	 
    Meant in croaking "Nevermore."	 
  
This I sat engaged in guessing, but no syllable expressing	 
To the fowl whose fiery eyes now burned into my bosom's core;	 
This and more I sat divining, with my head at ease reclining	  75
On the cushion's velvet lining that the lamplight gloated o'er,	 
But whose velvet violet lining with the lamp-light gloating o'er	 
    She shall press, ah, nevermore!	 
  
Then, methought, the air grew denser, perfumed from an unseen censer	 
Swung by seraphim whose foot-falls tinkled on the tufted floor.	  80
"Wretch," I cried, "thy God hath lent thee—by these angels he hath sent thee	 
Respite—respite and nepenthe from thy memories of Lenore!"	 
Quaff, oh quaff this kind nepenthe, and forget this lost Lenore."	 
    Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore."	 
  
"Prophet!" said I, "thing of evil! prophet still, if bird or devil!	  85
Whether Tempter sent, or whether tempest tossed thee here ashore,	 
Desolate yet all undaunted, on this desert land enchanted—	 
On this home by Horror haunted—tell me truly, I implore:	 
Is there—is there balm in Gilead?—tell me—tell me, I implore!"	 
    Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore."	  90
  
"Prophet!" said I, "thing of evil—prophet still, if bird or devil!	 
By that Heaven that bends above us, by that God we both adore,	 
Tell this soul with sorrow laden if, within the distant Aidenn,	 
It shall clasp a sainted maiden whom the angels name Lenore:	 
Clasp a rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore!"	  95
    Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore."	 
  
"Be that word our sign of parting, bird or fiend!" I shrieked, upstarting:	 
"Get thee back into the tempest and the Night's Plutonian shore!	 
Leave no black plume as a token of that lie thy soul hath spoken!	 
Leave my loneliness unbroken! quit the bust above my door!	 100
Take thy beak from out my heart, and take thy form from off my door!"	 
    Quoth the Raven, "Nevermore."	 
  
And the Raven, never flitting, still is sitting, still is sitting	 
On the pallid bust of Pallas just above my chamber door;	 
And his eyes have all the seeming of a demon's that is dreaming,	 105
And the lamp-light o'er him streaming throws his shadow on the floor:	 
And my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor	 
    Shall be lifted—nevermore!
